---
type: table
title: PSS 101
nav:
  toggle: true
  value: ''
menu:
  toggle: true
template: Article
visibility: World
core: true
status: Published
publish_on: ''
display_until: ''
layout:
  - size: 6
    blocks:
      - type: text
        size: 10
  - size: 2
    blocks:
      - type: text
        size: 10
---

# PSS 101
DAE project team: Karianne Rygh

Scientific partners: Delft University of Technology and the Design Academy Eindhoven, Creative and Industry partners: STBY, 4C-MG, Exact, Oce industries and Zuidzorg Project leaders: Dr. Ingrid Mulder, Delft University of Technology and Prof. Dr. Pieter Jan Stappers, Delft University of Technology

The PSS 101 project aimed to develop a framework of methods, techniques and tools to improve conceptualisation and communication between all those involved in design and development across industries.

Looking beyond products as just products, and services as only services, the project went beyond the traditional paradigms of product design and service design, working towards a combination of the two: Product Service Systems (PSS).

This type of thinking requires new design and development structures, moving people out compartments and meeting the needs of an, often diverse and evolving group of end-users. Product Service Systems (PSS) are designed in highly dynamic network environments, mixing people and parties, models, interests and goals.

The teams from TU Delft, the Design Academy Eindhoven and Industry partners, worked together to develop a framework and toolset to help design-partners better understand the needs, values and ambitions of end-users in their networks. They formulated a shared vision for a PSS proposition, leading to a documented, context-driven PSS concept.

The PSS 101 team also partnered with the CRISP research team CASD in the collaborative project Incubator 2.5. Together with the printing company Canon Océ, the Incubator 2.5 team investigated the development of new PSS around Océ's 2.5D printing technology and its applications within architecture. The PSS 101 team focussed on methodologies for large companies to explore new technologies together with creative industries and developed new tools and methods to help guide new ideas and approaches through large organisations.

---

→ A publication on the project can be read on [ISSUU]()

---
